poor EVGA is proud to announce our
all-new Z 494 the wind motherboard the
latest Intel 10th June core processors
all new features including a 14 phase
digital vrm power design Wi-Fi 6 4k HDMI
port 4 onboard graphics a RGB lighting
control and dual switchable BIOS make
the z4 90 for the win a full-featured
motherboard for your next build to see
the full list suspects followed the link
in the description below alright so
obviously if you can't tell by your
inbox there's probably 50 million intel
10th gen videos in your inbox we
obviously need to build our test bench
that's why I didn't put this together
like completely after I did the build we
got a plethora of parts that procured
themselves in our establishment and I
was thinking anything of a P word for
locations and our establishment so yeah
we got two CPUs right here we've got the
Intel 10th gen I nine ten nine hundred K
and the Intel tension i7 ten 600 K there
there in there just little boxes the 10
600 K is my most excited about that's
coming in a different video because I
already said that I think that's gonna
be where the the battleground is in
terms of pricing and trading blows with
AMD in terms of value but we have to
build something first and since we got a
whole bunch of motherboards I figured we
would just take a quick tour through
them and kind of just take a quick look
at them so that you guys can see what
they look like the one I'm putting on my
test bench right here is the asus rog z
490 gaming or z 490 gaming which is a
Strix motherboard
I like the Strix line simply because it
is very this is this is like they're
there every day to every man's
motherboard if you will it's not cheap
by any means but it's definitely not as
expensive as this stack over here this
represents a much more affordable entry
point into the ROG lineup from Asus
yeah I just think it's very pokey on the
back um yeah as you can see it just it
looks nice it's party it's back great
it's got all the things on there so
anyway that's what's gonna I'm just
showing you guys what they look like I'm
not going over their specs and their
differences all right so our og Maximus
12 around 12 we're ready holy crap okay
this is the Maximus 12 hero Wi-Fi you
can see it's a it looks a lot like the
Strix a little bit beefier parts bigger
heat sinks and stuff on their design
probably a little bit more towards
overclocking if MDOT two mounts
underneath there I think we have one the
Strix as well
no backplate on the back and a back
cover but again a more affordable rog
product from the Maximus lineup from
there it steps up to the formula what
the formula is gonna add is a water
block for the V RMS and a much prettier
armor shield on it so you can see you've
got your ek water block I believe it's
an ek yeah it is ek the ek collaboration
vrm water block which you can use with
water or leave it air-cooled if you want
but it also adds on the back as you can
see how it's still pokey right there on
the back you can see you get the shield
on there which is just a nice thing to
have I guess then we have the extreme o
which is extremely heavy this guy is a
like fully ATX I guess you can call it
it's the heaviest of the bunch it's
multi layer PCBs big heat sink covers
for the MDOT 2's much bigger vrm heat
sink for dims dim dot - all the stuff
you might expect this is the big boy
this is like the whole that's the top of
the top when it comes to Asus and their
mainstream platform which is obviously
the Z series but that's not all we got
megsie 490 ace from MSI well I should be
doing a build with this as well MSI has
kind of moved on to their color scheme
being black and gold which is nice
especially if you're going for like
and I think I would go good with maybe
that steampunk idea I have in the future
right yeah it's a nice pretty
motherboard so this is a standard ATX
eyes after I've got two covers the
screws are loose on that one
that's okay you can titanite up this
Morse code little mini shield on the
back right there and you can see this is
the for the back of the BRM or there's
no the back of the chokes I guess
well heatsink so he's got a heat pad on
there so up here at the top as well for
the VRMs and now we've got the z4 90
orest master I'm kind of excited to look
at this board too because it's been a
while since we looked at a gigabyte
products I'm gonna might be on popular
opinion I kind of feel like they took a
lot of design cues from Asus cuz at a
glance that looks like an Asus board
it's not just me right
but I do feel like a lot of design cues
from this might be derivative but
whatever who cares it's all about the
performance at the end of the day
speaking of performance I can't give you
those numbers until we build something
so get the test batch up and running
we're using an AI o or using the trio X
fractal design a I already said that
we're using the Strix board 16 gigabytes
of trenton z memory 32 hundred megahertz
500 gigabyte samsung 950 or 860 Evo SSD
we're on our 4 terabyte games drive
10900 K and the XTC 850 850 watts is
plenty there's SLI is dead
[Music]
well this monstrosity is together run
cable manage didn't just said parts
sticking up everywhere that's okay so we
got the a i/o on here we've got our fan
bracket so that's gonna help blow air
down on the V RMS and such we got our
graphics card which is not really the
point today's video look at this also -
you might have noticed we did switch the
motherboard from the Strix to the hero
because we realized the Strix didn't
have any surface mounted power buttons
or a q-code readout and I want all that
on a test bench I don't want at the wire
a power button and stuff so we switched
to the hero board look the hero lights
up RGB knew that oh you should stop it
okay here we go
flex key what is that button everything
turned ah that's good science there's so
much RGB look alright let's go into the
BIOS let's see we got now listen today's
video is not gonna be necessarily about
all the performance figures we are going
to do like Cinebench and r20 heat bench
the basic stuff the free stuff you can
go and download yourself and compare if
you have like a 900 km ice core gonna be
vs his download these programs run them
yourself compare the numbers we are
gonna also be doing the $500 shoot out
because this CPU is like just under 500
bucks which puts it up against AMD's
3900 X which is utilized in a system
over there that it's a lot of work to
get it out I honestly think I'm gonna do
the 10 600 K first versus the AMD then
we'll come back and revisit this one
because I don't know how many people are
honestly shopping for why might I use my
mouse right now in this Dawson type
environment or this BIOS environment
whatever I know unlocked power limits
for increased performance okay we want
Intel default settings right that's what
we're after
we don't want Asus doing any of its
enhancement crap Auto lets BIOS optimize
disable enforce all limits we're showing
all of this because when the 900k
launched there was a bit of a
controversy because a lot of us didn't
catch but the isus boards were
automatically applying like all core
frequency while the single core
frequency turbo-boost - all core which
was really skewing our numbers so I'm
showing you this now so you can see we
are disabling that stuff out of the box
but it is set to auto which we don't
want we want disabled enforced all
limits a iover tuner XMP one we're gonna
run that for the memory
alright so testing methodology and such
before we get into any benchmark numbers
here let's talk about what we did why we
did it and the weird Forks in the road
you can take along the way we took the
99 hundred KS off of our old test bench
and put in 99 hundred K on there two
reasons one ways that we the nine
hundred KS was giving us some funky
results are not results but behavior on
this board still even after we did the
BIOS update that video a while back
where we talk about how wouldn't even
boot unless it was overclocked but we
also know that the KS is nothing more
than like boost table enhancements to a
nine and a hundred K it's a bend silicon
lottery winning CPU that they could push
more megahertz out of essentially it is
the same as a ninety nine hundred K 900k
super because they've taken a page out
of invidious book this is sitting on the
EVGA Z 390 overclocking motherboards
though which is important to point out
because the Asus boards give you some
settings in there that the EVGA board
doesn't seem to be doing that we we
can't find - how to adjust for instance
we talked about in our video regarding
the specs of the CPU that it does have a
turbo timer it for lack of a better term
after 56 seconds at max speed max power
draw max clock it will then drop the
clocks down and we experience that on
testing the 10900 k with the asus
motherboard because a lot of the tests
we've run last longer than 56 seconds so
when we do these benchmarks you're gonna
see a few things you're only gonna see
one ninety nine hundred k number because
we believe that this motherboard has
removed those features and just goes
straight to the
ignoring of the Intel turbo timer logic
because of this motherboard being an L n
to design a motherboard and considering
kingpin is involved in the design of
this I have no doubt it's probably been
stripped off this motherboard why have
an overclocking motherboard with a turbo
time and limit the ACS board on the
other hand you're gonna see two numbers
for the 10900 K where we left it out of
the box settings with XMP profile
enabled on the memory so both the memory
RG skills set to 3200 megahertz
even though that's a thirty eight
hundred acre hertz dims set to the same
timings and frequency 3200 megahertz and
then you're gonna see we went in here
and turned on core enhancement and
basically maxed out the vrm power limit
and timer to their max values to what
they would allow us to run without the
core clocks dropping and so there was
actually some tangible improvement there
and this is what
[Music]
all right results time with the core
enhancement off and the turbo timer and
all that stuff I factory Intel specs
Cinebench our 20 our highest score was a
61 88 but when we ran the tests back to
back to back to back to back over and
over and over and there's no duration in
between those tests allowing that timer
to sort of reset it dropped all the way
down to a 56 76 that's a big improve its
a lot of percentage right there almost
10% percent a bench single score let's
explain why it went from 514 to a 524
when single core is clearly handled
logically different than multi-core so
there's thermal velocity boost and
thermal velocity boost is essentially
the same thing we just explained for a
single core only it has a multi-core but
it has different logic and what
frequency it will go to and how far it
will drop so all core goes to 4.9 that's
as high as it'll go and then when it's
hit its limit it then in time 56 seconds
it will then drop down I couldn't even
monitor frequencies none of our
monitoring software could see the
frequencies of these CPUs which is kind
of funny but I had to use a couple of
different pieces of software to monitor
things like temperatures because MSI
Afterburner could see temperature but
hardware monitor and its latest version
couldn't and the only way I could see
frequency was with performance meter
inside of Windows you know
control-alt-delete and looking at
performance but that gives us sort of an
average between all the cores of what
the core speed is so I couldn't even
tell you what exactly the core speeds
went down to what the wait for some
updates on software on the new tension
stuff but what happens is single core
goes up to 5.3 and then it drops down to
like five two or five one not a lot but
a enough to increase or decrease the
score depending on you know which way
the clock speed goes so we went in there
and and removed all those limits and
decor enhancement it allows it to stay
at that clock speed a lot longer and
single core is more impacted by that
because single core tasks take a lot
longer to do like Cinebench single core
on this CPU took like 10 minutes some of
that has a long time so blender went
from 2 minutes and 20 seconds out of the
box settings down to 2 minutes 4 seconds
with core enhancement on and all that
sort of stuff and I think part of that
might be because of a DX instruction
with Cinebench there's a there's an AV X
instruction offset
says depending on the type of AVX
instruction that's running it's gonna
reduce the core clock specifically
because of power draw and temperature is
like I just said blender I don't believe
uses AVX instructions and so I think
we're seeing a lot less of an
improvement although 16 seconds is
nothing to scoff at it's a good
percentage of the total time it's a lot
less difficult to task difficult of a
task to run than Cinebench we put
Geekbench in there now Geekbench is one
of those tests that really didn't see a
benefit from reducing or removing any of
those limitations because it's actually
kind of intelligent the way it runs its
tests it kind of alternates the type of
test it's running so it hits the CPU
differently and it does take a small
break in between each test enough to
kind of reset that turbo limit timer so
we actually only gain five points 1403
to 1408 on single core and 16 10 6 5 -
down to a 10 649 that just shows us
we're in the margin of error where
there's always gonna be a slight score
fluctuation where no difference happen
with that 3dmark the same thing we
gained like 70 points believe it or not
in 3dmark that's actually could be a bit
of a margin of error you can run 3 mark
over and over and over and get weird
fluctuations when compared to the 9900
Kay it's obvious it's better it should
be it's now occupying occupying it's now
occupying its price point and giving you
two more cores and four more threads
with extra stuff in it like the thermal
velocity the turbo logic is obviously
higher it's going to a higher clock
speed on both single and multi-core but
and there's a really big buts and i
cannot lie don't buy this cpu think you
you're gonna overclock the crap out of
it because you're not it's the same 14 +
+ process so they've had four plus years
because all the way back to skylake of
refining this process I could not even
get 5 - all court to run on this it
would start the test and get a little
bit and then it would crash and if I
could get it to complete the test it
took so much voltage to do it that we
were seeing it hit thermal limit right
away 100 seeds across the board on all
of the course and it would hold the 5 to
like well 5.17 is what he was showing
but the score didn't really increase at
all because we know it was it was doing
this on the frequency so instead of it
like stepping down it steps down and
steps up and down up so just bouncing
off that thermal limit and then when I
was like okay let's increase the thermal
limit it actually crashed and it like
locked up hard block so I could not get
any sort of a dirty overclock out of
this and then I tried to do a little bit
of under bolting on it that wasn't
happening so one of two things have
happened here it kind of reached the
limit as to how many megahertz I can
pull out of the silicon which is look
you can't say that this is not an
extremely high clock CPU because it is
it wasn't that long ago when five
gigahertz seemed impossible to reach the
other thing is it could just be silicon
lottery this is the first CPU I've
received from Intel for a review that
did not have Intel confidential printed
on it
this one says Intel confidential and
this one clocks really really well fill
CPU for instance when we built his I TX
rigged a retail CPU we bought at a micro
Center does not overclock at all
he can't even under volt it 25
millivolts he cannot go minus 25
millivolts which is like the first real
step of under volting without it
crashing he's got a CPU that runs what
it runs on the print and it takes every
bit of voltage to do it because the ASIC
quality determines how successful your
overclocking and/or voltage or under
volting is gonna go I think that's kind
of what's happening here a mixture of
the both mixture of the both a mixture
of the two a combination of both I think
is what's happening here high clock
speeds out of the box have got it much
closer to its theoretical max that you
can get in normal cooling configurations
of ln2 and and all that sort of stuff
very similar to GP boost yeah 3300 X we
couldn't get any overclock out of that
whatsoever now I know that you know
they've pushed like 6 gigahertz out of
that but yes we're talking standard
plebeian type cooling ok and my plebeian
I mean anyone that's running like liquid
nitrogen and stuff obviously this is all
pleb cooling so that is what it is I
promise
600k versus that i think it's the 3800 x
is the equivalent cpu price-wise I think
don't quote me on that
we are going to compare this cpu to the
AMD 3900 X because that is the logical
price point comparison my eyes are sort
of burning suddenly that is the logical
price point comparison between the two
and we need to see now if the 3900 X
still remains king over Intel because it
no longer has a significant core damage
of 4 cores and 8 threads over this guy
it's 2 cores 4 threads over this guy but
this one is pushing nearly 1 gigahertz
faster clock speed but anyway guys
thanks for watching I know that this
video kind of lacked a lot of substance
in terms of like real solid numbers
compared to like here's 32 CPUs and how
it compares here's 56 applications and
how it did it there's a lot of really
talented reviewers out there that do
that sort of stuff we're talking anon
tech gamers Nexus I know I don't know
what Linus is gonna do on this no be
honest he's got a really talented team
but he doesn't always put something on a
launch day so I have no idea what he's
doing
tons of written sites that do the deep
deep dives and if that's the kind of
stuff you're looking for I highly
recommend you go and watch their content
if you want to see me be an idiot and
probably hook an air-conditioner up to
this or something that's what you're
gonna get around here anyway guys thanks
for watching you will see those
comparisons I promised in the future in
the very near future actually there's
always guys we'll see you in the next
one